# Project-354
:7.7 MW Biomass based Power Project By Shikhar commodities

Shikhar Commodities has set up 7.7 MW Biomass based Power Project By Shikhar Commodities is
located in Sirgitti Industrial Area, District - Bilaspur, State Chhattisgarh, Country India.
This is Greenfield project.

The project was commissioned in 09/11/2021

The purpose of the project is the construction and operation of a grid connected electricity
generation unit using biomass (rice husk). The biomass project generation facility will involve
installation of a 35 TPH nominal capacity Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion Boiler. The boiler and
the turbo-generator are installed with the necessary auxiliary plants and systems required for the
efficient operation of the biomass based power plant.

The proposed project shall use the conventional combustion and steam-power cycle. The pressure
and temperature chosen are at 66 Kg/ Sq. cm. and 500 + 5 Deg. C respectively. The pressure and
temperature are less than more efficient rankine cycle plants (operating at 87 Kg/Cm2 or 105
Kg/Cm2). This lower pressure technology has been chosen to facilitate the use of biomass. will
compensate for lower efficiency as well as lower Plant Load Factor (PLF) of the plant compared to
normal coal fired power plants.

Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e.,
56961.9MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the
operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any
GHG emission sources. The estimated annual CO2e emission reductions by the project activity are
expected to be 54636.12 tCO2e, whereas actual emission reduction achieved during the first CoU
period shall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification
